As of today, workplaces are designed to optimize productivity and efficiency, resulting in minimal physical movement. Therefore, office workers splenda lot of time sitting durening the workday. Chronic sedentary behavior can lead to health risks, including chronic low back pain and cardiovascular disease. Electric sit-stand desks, which allow users to transition between sitting and standing poses a solution that integrates physical activity into the wokplace. However, logterm studies have shown that even when people own a standing desk, they rarely use it in practice. autonomous standing desks are one potential solution to this problem as they can increase the overall standing time. There a lreday esists some research about how users want to interact with  autonomous standing desk. One particulary interesting aspect is how the autonomous monvebent of the desk can be design to not distract the users during work.  Kim et al s have found out that users show mixed responses to autonomous desks that change at regular time intervals, with half the users preferring a manual desk to reduce distraction during work.[38] [39]. Lee et al. [43] found that users are most receptive to a standing desk moving autonomously in between tasks and that interrupting users with height changes during tasks causes frustration.  However Both Lee et al. [43] and Kim et al. [38] investigated desk motion in controlled lab studies where participants only used the desks for a short time. IN contrast to that halburtin et al  investigetd in theri three-week in-the-wild study how users want to user a standing desk at a real workplace and how to encourage users to increase satinding time without causing frustintion.For the study they delevopled a plug-and-play  system for remote control of standing desks and three desk modes were investigeated: Interval (raises hourly), Adaptive (raises if the user hasn't stood in an hour), and Smart (raises when the user is away). Results showed that autonomous desks increased standing time, with Interval mode being most effective but frustrating, while the  Smart mode was preferred as it moved while users were away. 

In my thesis I will use these finding to improve the desk controller system and further run a study that evaluated how users want to interact with the desk controller.  I  aim to address the following research question: RQ: How should an autonomous standing desk be designed to support the user in reaching the desired amount of standing time? Since users in the previous study favored the Smart mode where the desk moved on its own when users were away I will focus n this behaviour in my project. To better monitore when users are present I plan to install a motion sensor at the desk that captures user presence. This data can then be processed by a server and used to move the desk without causing interruptions. To give the user better feedback on how succesful they reach their staindng goals a desktop client that runs on the users personal couter will be implemented. With this the daily and weekly satistics of standing time can be viewed. Also on a configureation page different parameters can be set by the user. These can include: personal standing goal,  sensitivity of the motion sensor, preferred standing intervals throughout the day or turning notifications on or off. The aim is to give the user different options to improve the personal experience with the desk controller. My sudy will run for 3-4 weeks and I will collect both qualitative and quantitative data. Using questionnaire I want to find out about the overall experience with the desk controller and what settings where used the most. Using the sensor data I can collect information about metrics like total amount of standing time, time to down (desk was moved down maulally after moving up autmoatcally) or amount of manual sit-stand transitions.
